# GENERIC GUIDE FOR DEVELOPERS


## 1. The structure of modules

- For every module you create, put all module structure in `app/main` folder. For example, the path of module `user_auth`: `app/main/user_auth`.

- For the structure inside each module, I will take user_auth module as an example:

- **user_auth**
    - **models**: Models in database. Each file contains a class mapping to table(s) in database
        + **__init__.py**
        + **blacklist_token_model.py**
        + **user_model.py**
    - **services**: provide services to handle requests. Please see the content of these files to understand more.
        + **__init__.py**
        + **auth_service.py**
        + **blacklist_service.py**
        + **user_service.py**
    - **utils**: 
        + **__init__.py**
        + **decorator.py** : contains decorators for authentication, preprocessing...
        + **dto.py**: Data Transfer Object. Mapping **Object in database (Created from model classes)** <-> **Dictionary (data type in Python)**
    - **auth.py**: APIs for auth
    - **user.py**: APIs for users


## 2. How to initialize the database:

    - Delete `migrations` folder.
    - Delete database file (in `app` folder - if you use sqlite)
    - Commands:

    ~~~
    python manage.py db init
    python manage.py db migrate
    python manage.py db upgrade
    ~~~

## 3. How to run and test:

    - Run: `python manage.py run`
    - Test: `python manage.py test`

## 4. Token format:

    Authorization header is in the following format:
    Key: Authorization
    Value: "Bearer token_generated_during_login"


## 5. API DOC:

- Run the server then enter: [https://localhost:5000/api/swagger](https://localhost:5000/api/)

## 6. Create Multilang APIs using Flask-Babel:
- Please don't hardcode strings in this application. If you don't have time to follow all following steps, use step 1 and 2 to avoid string hard coding (gettext()).

- Use Flask-Babel to implement multilang APIs:
    + Import gettext, nggettext: `from flask_babel import gettext, ngettext`.
    + Use them in code: `gettext(u'User successfully created')`.
    + Use babel to update language files automatically: 
    ```Python
    pybabel extract -F babel.cfg -o messages.pot app
    pybabel update -i messages.pot -d app/main/translations
    ```
    + Edit language files in `app/main/translations/**/*.po` using text editors or POEdit tool: https://poedit.net/
    + Compile language file:
    ```Python
    pybabel compile -d  app/main/translations
    ```
- To specify language for API, set `Accept-Language` header of request to the language of response. Currently we support `en` (default) and `vi`.